doc/source/install.rst, before:

.. _install:

Installation
=======================================

Please select the type of installation you would like:

Option 1: :ref:`install_only_netpyne`.

Option 2: :ref:`install_gui`. This link includes installation instructions for NEURON and NetPyNE, using specific versions that have been fully tested with the GUI. Note that the NetPyNE GUI only supports Python 3.

If you have any issues during the installation please post a message with the details to the `NetPyNE forum <http://www.netpyne.org/forum>`_ or the `NetPyNE GitHub issues <https://github.com/Neurosim-lab/netpyne/issues>`_ .  


.. _install_only_netpyne:

Install only NetPyNE (without the GUI) 
-----------------------------------------

Requirements 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before installing NetPyNE, please ensure you have the following installed:

1) Python 2 or 3 (2.7, 3.6 and 3.7 are supported). Download from the `official Python website <https://www.python.org/>`_. Alternatively, you can download the `Anaconda Distribution <https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/>`_ which also includes several data science and visualization packages.

2) The NEURON simulator. See NEURON's `installation instructions <http://www.neuron.yale.edu/neuron/download/>`_. If you would like to run parallelized simulations, please ensure you install NEURON with MPI support (see also `Quick start guide <https://neuron.yale.edu/ftp/neuron/2019umn/neuron-quickstart.pdf>`_). 

3) The ``pip`` tool for installing Python packages. See `pip installation here <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/>`_.


Install the latest released version of NetPyNE via pip (Recommended)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Linux or Mac OS:  ``pip install netpyne`` 

Windows: ``python -m pip install netpyne``


Upgrade to the latest released version of NetPyNE via pip
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use this option if you already have NetPyNE installed and just want to update to the latest version.

Linux or Mac OS: ``pip install netpyne -U``

Windows: ``python -m pip install -U netpyne`` 


Install the development version of NetPyNE via GitHub and pip
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The NetPyNE package source files, as well as example models, are available via GitHub at: https://github.com/Neurosim-lab/netpyne. The following instructions will install the version in the GitHub "development" branch -- it will include some of the latest enhancements and bug fixes, but could also include temporary bugs:

1) ``git clone https://github.com/Neurosim-lab/netpyne.git``
2) ``cd netpyne``
3) ``git checkout development``
4) ``pip install -e .``

pip will add a symlink in the default Python packages directory to the cloned NetPyNE directory (so you don't need to modify PYTHONPATH). If new changes are available just need to ``git pull`` from the cloned NetPyNE directory.

This version can also be used by developers interested in extending the package. 

.. _install_gui:

Install NetPyNE and the NetPyNE GUI (alpha version)
------------------------------------------------------

The `NetPyNE-UI GitHub Wiki <https://github.com/Neurosim-lab/NetPyNE-UI/wiki>`_ provides instructions to install NEURON, NetPyNE and NetPyNE-UI, using specific versions that have been fully tested with the GUI. There are 3 alternative ways to do this:

`1) Install using pip <https://github.com/Neurosim-lab/NetPyNE-UI/wiki/Pip-installation>`_ - Installs NetPyNE and NetPyNE-UI on your system via a simple pip command, but requires having `NEURON already installed (see instructions) <https://github.com/Neurosim-lab/NetPyNE-UI/wiki/Installing-NEURON-(version-7.6.2-with-crxd)>`_.

`2) Install using Docker <https://github.com/Neurosim-lab/NetPyNE-UI/wiki/Docker-installation>`_ - Pre-packaged installation that includes everything you need in a Docker container: NEURON, NetPyNE and NetPyNE-UI. 

`3) Virtual machine <https://github.com/Neurosim-lab/NetPyNE-UI/wiki/Virtual-Machine-Installation>`_ - Download a virtual machine image with everything pre-installed. Requires the Virtual Box software.  

An online version of the NetPyNE GUI is also available at: `www.netpyne.org/gui <http://www.netpyne.org/gui>`_. There is a maximum number of simultaneous users for this online version, so if you can't log in, please try again later. 

Note: the GUI also includes an interactive Python Jupyter Notebook (click "Python" panel at bottom) that you can use to directly run NetPyNE code/models (i.e. without using the actual graphical interface).

Commit message:

updated install doc to remove GUI installation -- only online GUI version

doc/source/install.rst, after:

.. _install:

Installation
=======================================


Requirements 
------------------------------------------------------

Before installing NetPyNE, please ensure you have the following installed:

1) Python 2 or 3 (2.7, 3.6 and 3.7 are supported). Download from the `official Python website <https://www.python.org/>`_. Alternatively, you can download the `Anaconda Distribution <https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/>`_ which also includes several data science and visualization packages.

2) The ``pip`` tool for installing Python packages. See `pip installation here <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/>`_.

3) The NEURON simulator. See NEURON's `installation instructions <http://www.neuron.yale.edu/neuron/download/>`_. If you would like to run parallelized simulations, please ensure you install NEURON with MPI support (see also `Quick start guide <https://neuron.yale.edu/ftp/neuron/2019umn/neuron-quickstart.pdf>`_). Note: the latest NEURON version can be installed simply via: ``pip install neuron``



Install the latest released version of NetPyNE via pip (Recommended)
------------------------------------------------------

Linux or Mac OS:  ``pip install netpyne`` 

Windows: ``python -m pip install netpyne``


Upgrade to the latest released version of NetPyNE via pip
------------------------------------------------------

Use this option if you already have NetPyNE installed and just want to update to the latest version.

Linux or Mac OS: ``pip install netpyne -U``

Windows: ``python -m pip install -U netpyne`` 


Install the development version of NetPyNE via GitHub and pip
------------------------------------------------------

The NetPyNE package source files, as well as example models, are available via GitHub at: https://github.com/Neurosim-lab/netpyne. The following instructions will install the version in the GitHub "development" branch -- it will include some of the latest enhancements and bug fixes, but could also include temporary bugs:

1) ``git clone https://github.com/Neurosim-lab/netpyne.git``
2) ``cd netpyne``
3) ``git checkout development``
4) ``pip install -e .``

pip will add a symlink in the default Python packages directory to the cloned NetPyNE directory (so you don't need to modify PYTHONPATH). If new changes are available just need to ``git pull`` from the cloned NetPyNE directory.

This version can also be used by developers interested in extending the package. 

.. _install_gui:

Use web-based online version of NetPyNE GUI (alpha version)
------------------------------------------------------

The NetPyNE GUI is available online at: `www.netpyne.org/gui <http://www.netpyne.org/gui>`_. There is a maximum number of simultaneous users for this online version, so if you can't log in, please try again later. 

Note: the GUI also includes an interactive Python Jupyter Notebook (click "Python" icon at bottom-left) that you can use to directly run NetPyNE code/models (i.e. without using the actual graphical interface). 

Installation Troubleshooting
------------------------------------------------------
If you have any issues during the installation please post a message with the details to the `NetPyNE forum <http://www.netpyne.org/forum>`_ or the `NetPyNE GitHub issues <https://github.com/Neurosim-lab/netpyne/issues>`_ .
